hi I'm Wendy from shiny happy world I
get a lot of questions about how to wrap
double fold bias tape around a corner so
that you get a nice neat mitered edge
and that's what I'm going to show you
today okay I made up a little sample
here so I could show you what we're
shooting for this is what people are
asking about how to get this nice neat
edge when you're wrapping double fold
bias tape around the edge of the fabric
so first let's have a quick look just a
reminder there's a video on how to make
double fold bias tape but this is just a
reminder of what it is this is when
you've got a strip of fabric the edges
are folded in toward the center and
pressed and then the whole thing is
folded in half that's why it's called
double fold bias tape because it's
folded in and then in again and you wrap
this nicely it can be a nice way to
finish the edges of fabric you just fold
it over the edge and stitch it down so
the question that people have had is how
to get this nice neat mitered corner and
that's what I'm going to show you how to
do so we're going to take it over to the
sewing machine I've got the contrasting
thread in there and I'll show you what
we're going to do okay the first thing
I'm going to do is wrap this around the
edge you want to make sure that the edge
of your fabric is going all the way up
into that fold and wrap it around the
edge and I'm going to so I'm going to
continue this line of sewing from here
and I'm going to go right to the edge of
where that fabric stops it's very
important not to go past that edge if
you need to stop a stitch or shoots too
short that's better than going too far
so we're going to do first
and I like to back stitch there just to
make sure that it's being held in place
then you take it out of the machine the
shorter okay the next step we're going
to open up this fold lay this bottom you
can feel it on the bottom I'm folding
that flat that allows me to again get
this fabric and I'm going to set it down
once I get it folded into a little point
there I'm going to set it down and make
sure that I'm getting the edge of the
fabric right into the fold of the bias
tape so you can see down here it's
folding over neatly and up here I need
to just push my finger in there and make
sure that I get a nice neat mitered fold
the trick is to take it out of the
machine you're never going to be able to
get that fold with your needle still in
there so hold it all in place slide it
under the presser foot do a couple of
back stitches to secure it at the front
end
and then just keep sewing pull it out
and let you see it
snip this off so you can see really
where it starts and stops there you go
so it's not sewn down here you could
actually stick something up underneath
there so if you wanted to you could run
a little bit of extra stitching there
but I don't find you needed it never is
going to come unfolded there and let me
show you from the back got my thread
tail there still but you can see that it
just goes right up to the fold there on
the back too and continues on so that's
it that's how you get a nice neat
mitered corner when you're wrapping
double fold bias tape around a corner
the trick is to sew right up to the edge
of where the fabric stops inside the
bias tape and then stop and take it out
of the machine before you round that
corner and fold your miters in I'm Wendy
from shiny happy world I'll see you next
time